>> Brian Holt: Hopefully now you're seeing
more things kind of come together, right?
The fact that you can make components
up of other components means
we have some pretty powerful
patterns at our disposal.
We can create reusable components
like a datepicker, right?
And then we can reuse that datepicker
throughout our entire website.
I'm sure you could see many
instances where this can be useful.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, we can use these
components to encapsulate logic, markup,
and style.
Kind of compress those all together and
then ship them out in individual pieces.
And we're kinda getting at what
the core of what React is all about.
So at least for me,
I used to write Backbone, and
I used to write a decent
amount of Angular pre-1, 0.8,
I think is what it was when I was
writing Angular, maybe Angular 1.
And they were kind of
all-inclusive frameworks, right?
They kind of emulated MVC on the server.
It felt a lot like writing something like
Django or Rails or something like that,
where you'd have the model, you'd have the
view and you'd have the controller, right?
And you'd have the model set in one end,
you'd have the view set in the other, and
then the controller is kind
of routing to each other.
This is an amazing paradigm on the server,
really there's not many
better ways to write servers.
And we kind of thought, well, this is
a really great way to write servers.
Why shouldn't we try this with the client,
right, and it worked okay, right?
It was better than writing the jQuery
spaghetti code that at least I used
to write.
But over time we kind of see kind of
the cracks show when you have a large app,
right?
The real problem is that
you'd have these models,
one model'd be using a bunch
of different views, right?
And then you have this controllers doing
all sorts of crazy routing from one model
to many controllers and
many controllers to one model, right?
It was just many to many mess, right?
That's kind of what ended up happening.
So some really smart people at Facebook
decided that this was not necessarily
a very good way to write a code.
And they kinda yearned for the days where
we could just write some markup on a page,
and it just worked, right?
So they kind of went forward with that
idea, that well, why don't we embrace
the paradigm of what's on the web,
which is components, right?
We would have these bits of markup, which
had CSS that would get applied to them.
And then we could reuse these different
pieces of markup all over the site.
So they kind of embraced and
leaned into this pattern and said, well,
why can't we create these component
that then we can render out to the DOM?
And so that's kind of what
they started leaning into, and
we ended up with React components.
And a React component is just
an encapsulated piece of a component,
right, behavior, style and
markup, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: Now this
ends up being really,
really powerful because it's a natural
way to think about the web, right?
It's a natural way of creating interfaces.
So rather than having models, views and
controllers all separated, that
separation of concern doesn't necessarily
make a ton of sense for interfaces.
So what they did was they took
models used as controllers,
they shoved them all together for
very, very small components, right?
So everything for a component lives
inside of one file basically, right?
Now this is really, really awesome,
because if something breaks,
it's all right there, right?
You don't have to go through
multiple files, right?
How many of you have ever
debugged an Angular 1 app, and
you look at some component
that broke on the page.
And you have no idea how it broke, right?
It could be in the directive,
it could be in the controller.
It could be in the template,
it could be in the service, I can go on,
and on, and on of where all
the different places this could live.
The cool thing about a React component
is due to the encapsulation of
how these components work, if you see
something that breaks on the page,
you have a pretty damned good
idea of what happened, right?
Because it all lives right
there in that one file.
Now I'm kind of exaggerating a little bit,
right, because modules can break and etc.
But you always have a good starting point.
So this is all getting
to why I love React.
React is going to be more verbose for
sure than Angular, right?
You can write amazing interfaces with
Angular with very, very little code.
However, when you go back to maintain
some of these very clever Angular apps,
I'm speaking on my own behalf, right?
I wrote crappy Angular, I own that.
[LAUGH] But
maintaining some of these clever Angular
apps is atrocious,
it's nightmarish, right?
With React it forces you into such
a paradigm that it's much easier to debug,
it's much easier to maintain.
It's much easier for someone to come back
later, yourself or someone else and read
through the code and kind of understand
because it's a very, very explicit.
But this comes at the cost
is that you write more code.
It's physically more
keystrokes to get it out.
So that's kind of the paradigm of
why React is the way that it is.
This affords some other really interesting
patterns which we're gonna be getting to
throughout the next couple days but
that´s where we´re gonna start.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: It´s just
a couple of clarifications or
questions on the chat about
why we need null parameter.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: And
people are just saying the second
parameters is the set of properties,
attributes, that can be passed in.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: First is the tag,
the second is properties-
>> Brian Holt: I'll talk about it here
in just a sec.
>> Speaker 2: The third is
the child element and then yeah,
why do we need to do two
React.createElement together,
and you're just showing nesting.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, yep, so
to talk about this null right here,
you could also pass an empty object.
That's fine too.
So what this is,
this is all the attributes or
properties that's going to be
passed to that particular element.
So for example for a div,
let's say you wanted to give it this
particular div an ID of,
let's do this one here.
An ID of my first component,
you'd say id: 'my-first-component'.
>> Brian Holt: So now if I refresh this
and I look here inside of my element,
notice I got the ID right there
of my first component right?
So this is how you pass attributes
to these particular things.
Now we're gonna get into, we can also
pass attributes to my title as well,
which we'll do momentarily.
>> Speaker 2: And then one more
clarification is you're talking about
Angular 1, right,
with everything being split apart?
>> Brian Holt: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Is Angular 2 and 4,
whatever.
>> Brian Holt: I don't know
anything about Angular 2 so.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, you're saying that-
>> Brian Holt: So
all of my ragging on Angular from
here forth will be on Angular 1.
Thank you for that clarification.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
a lot of the frameworks are coming in to
this new paradigm of putting your mark up,
your CSS, your component and
everything into one file now.
>> Brian Holt: Definitely,
no, it would be fun and
useful to compare this particular
course with Lucas' course on Angular 2.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah,
someone asked about why we're doing
multiple createElements, right?
This is how you create, for
example, a div, right, and
then inside of that div, right, so
notice that we're still inside of this
particular parenthesis from this one.
We're doing nesting right, and
here instead of putting text,
we can actually put more createElements,
right?
It's like HTML,
there's infinite nesting that you can do.
So that's what's going on there.